Update cephfs and ceph rgw related documents (#13679)
Alluxio/alluxio: docs/en/ufs/CephFS.md

---
layout: global

> title: CephFS

Reviewer: can you modify https://github.com/Alluxio/alluxio/blob/master/docs/en/ufs/Ceph.md to be CephObjectStore to differentiate from CephFS?

Author: > can you modify https://github.com/Alluxio/alluxio/blob/master/docs/en/ufs/Ceph.md to be CephObjectStore to differentiate from CephFS?

yes, i am glad to do it.

nickname: CephFS
group: Storage Integrations
priority: 11
---

* Table of Contents
{:toc}

This guide describes how to configure Alluxio with CephFS as the under storage system. Alluxio supports

> two different under storage systems to connect to [CephFS](https://docs.ceph.com/en/latest/cephfs/):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
two different implementations of under storage system for [CephFS](https://docs.ceph.com/en/latest/cephfs/):
```

- [cephfs](https://docs.ceph.com/en/latest/cephfs/api/libcephfs-java/)
- [cephfs-hadoop](https://docs.ceph.com/en/nautilus/cephfs/hadoop/)

## Prerequisites

### Deploy Alluxio binary package
The Alluxio binaries must be on your machine. You can either
[compile Alluxio]({{ '/en/contributor/Building-Alluxio-From-Source.html' | relativize_url }}), or
[download the binaries locally]({{ '/en/deploy/Running-Alluxio-Locally.html' | relativize_url }}).

### Install Dependences
According to [ceph packages install](https://docs.ceph.com/en/latest/install/get-packages/)，
    cephfs-java
    libcephfs_jni

>     libcephfs2

Reviewer: unformatted

### Make symbolic links

```console
$ ln -s /usr/lib64/libcephfs_jni.so.1.0.0 /usr/lib64/libcephfs_jni.so
$ ln -s /usr/lib64/libcephfs.so.2.0.0 /usr/lib64/libcephfs.so
$ java_path=`which java | xargs readlink | sed 's#/bin/java##g'`
$ ln -s /usr/share/java/libcephfs.jar $java_path/jre/lib/ext/libcephfs.jar
```

### Download CephFS Hadoop jar

```console
$ curl -o $java_path/jre/lib/ext/hadoop-cephfs.jar -s https://download.ceph.com/tarballs/hadoop-cephfs.jar
```

## Basic Setup

Configure Alluxio to use under storage systems by modifying
`conf/alluxio-site.properties` and `conf/core-site.xml`. If them do not exist, 
create the configuration files from the templates

```console
$ cp conf/alluxio-site.properties.template conf/alluxio-site.properties
$ cp conf/core-site.xml.template conf/core-site.xml
```

> ### Option 1: ufs cephfs

Reviewer: checkout the new way of doing this to implement tabs:

```
{% navtabs Setup %}
{% navtab Option 1: cephfs %}
....
{% endnavtab %}
{% navtab Option 2: cephfs-hadoop %}
...
{% endnavtab %}
{% endnavtabs %}
```

See how it looks like at [this page](https://docs.alluxio.io/os/user/stable/en/deploy/Running-Alluxio-On-Docker.html#launch-alluxio-containers-for-master-and-worker)

Modify `conf/alluxio-site.properties` to include:

```properties

> alluxio.underfs.cephfs.conf.file=<ceph-conf-file->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
alluxio.underfs.cephfs.conf.file=<ceph-conf-file>
```

    <name>ceph.data.pools</name>
    <value>${data-pools}</value>
  </property>
  <property>
    <name>ceph.auth.id</name>
    <value>${client-id}</value>
  </property>
  <property>
    <name>ceph.conf.options</name>
    <value>client_mount_gid=${gid},client_mount_uid=${uid},client_mds_namespace=${ceph-fs-name}</value>
  </property>
  <property>
    <name>ceph.root.dir</name>
    <value>${ceph-fs-dir}</value>
  </property>
  <property>
    <name>ceph.mon.address</name>
    <value>mon1,mon2,mon3</value>
  </property>
  <property>
    <name>fs.AbstractFileSystem.ceph.impl</name>
    <value>org.apache.hadoop.fs.ceph.CephFs</value>
  </property>
  <property>
    <name>fs.ceph.impl</name>
    <value>org.apache.hadoop.fs.ceph.CephFileSystem</value>
  </property>
  <property>
    <name>ceph.auth.keyring</name>
    <value>${client-keyring-file}</value>
  </property>
</configuration>
```

## Running Alluxio Locally with CephFS

Start up Alluxio locally to see that everything works.

```console
$ ./bin/alluxio format
$ ./bin/alluxio-start.sh local
```

This should start an Alluxio master and Alluxio worker. You can see the master UI at
[http://localhost:19999](http://localhost:19999).

> ### Option 1: ufs cephfs

Reviewer: Same here, let's use tabs

```
{% navtabs Examples %}
{% navtab Option 1: cephfs %}
....
{% endnavtab %}
{% navtab Option 2: cephfs-hadoop %}
...
{% endnavtab %}
{% endnavtabs %}
```

An CephFS location can be mounted at a nested directory in the Alluxio namespace to have unified access
to multiple under storage systems. Alluxio's [Command Line Interface]({{ '/en/operation/User-CLI.html' | relativize_url }}) can be used for this purpose.

Issue the following command to use the ufs cephfs:
```
$ ./bin/alluxio fs mkdir /mnt/cephfs
$ ./bin/alluxio fs mount /mnt/cephfs cephfs://mon1\;mon2\;mon3/
```

Run a simple example program:

```console
$ ./bin/alluxio runTests --path cephfs://mon1\;mon2\;mon3/
```

Visit your cephfs to verify the files and directories created by Alluxio exist.

You should see files named like:
In cephfs, you can visit cephfs with ceph-fuse or mount by POSIX APIs. [Mounting CephFS](https://docs.ceph.com/en/latest/cephfs/#mounting-cephfs)
```
${ceph-fs-dir}/default_tests_files/Basic_CACHE_THROUGH
```
In Alluxio, you can visit the nested directory in the Alluxio. Alluxio's [Command Line Interface]({{ '/en/operation/User-CLI.html' | relativize_url }}) can be used for this purpose.
```
/mnt/cephfs/default_tests_files/Basic_CACHE_THROUGH
```

> 

Reviewer: unnecessary emptyline

### Option 2: ufs cephfs-hadoop

An CephFS location can be mounted at a nested directory in the Alluxio namespace to have unified access
to multiple under storage systems. Alluxio's [Command Line Interface]({{ '/en/operation/User-CLI.html' | relativize_url }}) can be used for this purpose.

Issue the following command to use the ufs cephfs:
```console

> ./bin/alluxio fs mkdir /mnt/cephfs-hadoop
> ./bin/alluxio fs mount /mnt/cephfs-hadoop ceph://mon1\;mon2\;mon3/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ ./bin/alluxio fs mkdir /mnt/cephfs-hadoop
$ ./bin/alluxio fs mount /mnt/cephfs-hadoop ceph://mon1\;mon2\;mon3/
```
